Go now, now!
In the eight and a half years that Washington
commands the Revolutionary Army, he continually demonstrates
how he expects no less from his troops
than he demands from himself.
[Lt. General Dave R. Palmer] He took no salary
for as long as he fought.
He let the states pay his expenses,
but he would take no salary.
He never went home.
He stayed with his troops the entire time.
He never led from the rear.
He was up front when he shouldn't have been,
but he thought it was necessary to
swing the battle when victory or defeat was in the balance.
(gunshots, yelling)
He would not take rewards at the end of the war.
He was totally a selfless leader.
In 1783, after a peace treaty is signed
with Britain, Washington appears before
the Continental Congress and offiicially resigns his post
as Commander in Chief.
Having now finished the work assigned to me,
I retire from the great theater of action.
Bidding an affectionate farewell to this august body
under whose orders I have so long acted.
Washington refuses to become a king.
His resignation was a radical departure for the time.
Washington set a precedent for all
American generals to follow.
That the military would obey political leaders
and not vice versa.
He gave us a tradition.
To not have any divine right of authority over the people.
And that the military has to be a people's army.
It has to be responsiticity and leadership.
Washington's decision to relinquish power
happens twice, not just as commander in chief,
but also after two terms as president of the United States.
(crowd applauding)
His return to civilian life becomes a cornerstone
of American democracy.